Jdbc is an api which connnects the java Application to the Database . Which includes the driverManager , Connnection, Prepared Statment , Statement , Resultset , Crud operations
include the create , read,update,delete.
Steps of Jdbc:
Step1)Firstly we need to add the jar file(MysqlConnector)
         1.Maven Repository
          2.This jar file inlcude the driver class
Step 2)Register and LoadDriver class
      Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver.Class)
Step 3)Generate DB Connection through driver manager
      Connection c = DriverManager.getConnection("DataBase url" , "root" , "Komal@mysql123");

Step 4: Statement and prepared statement 
 if we use the statement then there would be the static execution of the queries and if we use the prepared statement then there is the dynamic execution of the queries.
Statement c = c.createStatement();
Steps 5 :
Then execute queries.
Step 6:
Close all connections 

Modular Approach is used to database connectiivity:
which includes the ->
       Dao:database connection code
       Service:Which includes the bussiness Logic
       Controller:Calling Functionality

What is and driver ?
Driver act as the bridge between the java application and the database.
Where driver is act like as an bridge between the java application to the db that store the data in the database.
There are the types of driver:
Type 1 : jdbc odbc bridge driver
Jdbc:Java databse connectivity(Designed by sun microsystem)
odbc:open database connectivity(Design by windows microsoft)
Here odbc is only the windows specific os so the removed support form the java 7 in the previous version it has been used.

Java Application -> jdbc driver -> odbc driver -> native driver -> Database
Advantages of this:
Single driver can be used with all databases.
Disadvantages of the jdbc-odbc Driver:
measure disadvantages is that the performance degradation Eah database operations require  multiple calls and coversion which degrades the performace.

Type-II - Jdbc native API:
Here we avoid odbc instead of we use vendor specific driver . In this type finally removed the os dependency .
But this vendor specific driver has to be installed on all system partially in c & java-- vendor specific.
e.g:Oracle OCI driver-- but now out dated
In this driver Jdbc classes invoke function of vendor client library using JNI for each JDBC method call

Java application -> native api driver - > vendor library -> db
Better performance is obtaining as compared to type-I driver 
Odbc driver is not required

Disadvantages of native driver:
i)Native driver Needs to be install on each machines on which application is to execute 
ii)the vendor library need to be installed.

Type-II : Jdbc network protocol driver
In this type initially we installed our API on server and that server will transform the api to client machine .
When someone is connected through the internet a small copy of an api is sending to the respective client machine.
When someone is connnected to this server through the internet a small copy of API is sending to respective client machine.Basically it indirectly installed that API in your machine thorugh network so it is called network protocol driver.
Here type2 driver is running on server and wherever you give the request the server it transform that api in you machine and installed it
Middleware driver :
 e.g weblogic RMI driver

In this driver the implementation of the classes of jdbc interface which invoke functions of native drivers over the network using the standard network protocols sunch as TCP/IP.



















